---
title: 헛똑똑이가 되지 말자!!!
uploader: BZCF | 비즈까페
channel: BZCF | 비즈까페
channel_url: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWgXoKQ4rl7SY9UHuAwxvzQ
duration: 945
upload_date: 20260428
webpage_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j2FHQGaJC68
id: j2FHQGaJC68
categories:
  - People & Blogs
---

# 헛똑똑이가 되지 말자!!!

Alrighty chat, today we're going to talk about stupidity.
So I know everyone's concerned about being intelligent, high IQ,
we're going to do cognitive nootropics, cognitive enhancement, right?
We always want to boost our intelligence.
And I know I am certainly guilty of this.
I don't know if you guys know what I'm talking about,
but there's like smart intelligent people and there's stupid intelligent people.
And so what's the difference between someone who's a stupid intelligent person
and a smart intelligent person?
The first thing that we're going to talk about is the misapplication of intelligence.
So one of my favorite examples of this is NASA.
So when NASA was sending astronauts to the moon,
they like developed a really like they spent a bunch of money
and like did all this research on developing like a pen that writes in space.
You know what the Russians did?
Used a pencil?
They used a pencil.
So what's really interesting is we think that intelligence
is the primary problem-solving faculty that we have.
And if you're a stupid intelligent person, I know this sounds insane,
but one of the mistakes you're probably making is that you are using your intelligence too much.
What the hell do I mean by that?
If you look at people with empathy, right?
So a lot of people, when they're facing social situations,
they'll perform a lot of calculations.
And there are these other humans out there who are like sort of ignorant,
wandering through life and just making judgments,
and they seem to be happy and things seem to be working out for them, right?
There are a lot of people who like struggle with social situations
because they're running a bazillion calculations
to try to figure out what to say or what to do or whatever.
So here's the key thing to understand.
Intelligence from an evolutionary standpoint evolved for certain things.
And we have other parts of our brain that have evolved for other things.
So especially when it comes to things like social situations,
we have empathic circuits.
We integrate a lot of information about body language, tone, facial expressions.
Intelligence is not designed to be the tool for social interactions.
It's kind of like trying to milk a cow with a hammer.
Intelligence from an evolutionary perspective is actually designed to solve novel problems.
So a great example of this is like redneck engineering, right?
Where you see this really hilarious like, you know,
redneck engineering where someone builds this contraption,
like someone builds some like mechanized tricycle or something like that
because they don't have a car.
That's actually what intelligence is for.
Intelligence is designed when we encounter a new problem.
We have to be able to pull in a lot of information
and come up with a novel solution.
We run into trouble when we start misapplying intelligence
is the primary tool for a series of things, especially social situations.
So when we start to use our abstract reasoning capability,
our sort of data analysis capability for things like human interactions,
it actually falls short, right?
And there's a bunch of like relationship experts
who will sort of cite all of this research and like talk about all these theories.
They'll develop this really complex kind of stuff
where actually the reason that, you know,
this stuff doesn't really work great.
And if you look at a lot of people who have effortless social interactions,
they're using the right parts of their brain.
Now, why does this happen?
So this is what's really interesting.
I work with a bunch of people.
I'm sort of like this.
And the reason this happens is because when you have a high IQ,
it's so good at solving so many different things.
So as you are growing up,
you are sort of like leveling up your IQ,
increasing your proficiency with your IQ.
And since you're using your IQ,
you underdevelop other things like EQ,
like your emotional quotient, right?
So your ability to be empathic,
your ability to feel what other people are feeling,
your ability to use your intuition.
As you become more intelligent,
you start to make more calculations
and your intuition starts to rust.
Your social faculties start to rust.
And that creates problems
because now you are running a bunch of calculations.
When you actually have a circuit in your brain,
that'll do it instantly.
You're just not using it.
The second element of stupidity
that intelligent people are vulnerable to
is actually mindlessness.
So if you look at the research
and you ask someone,
okay, like what is stupidity?
There's different kinds of stupidity.
And one of them is being mindless, right?
So like, I'm not paying attention
or my mind is not focused on the problem.
Therefore, I make a mistake.
Now, I've worked with a ton of people
who have a high IQ
who think they have ADHD
because they are mindless, right?
My mind doesn't, I'm smart,
but my mind does not pay attention.
So this is not necessarily ADHD.
There's some comorbidity between IQ and ADHD,
but it's not sort of huge.
This is actually where intelligence
induces mindlessness.
Intelligence induces,
causes you to stop paying attention.
And here's how this works.
So I want you to imagine
a stupid person
who is sitting in a lecture.
So when a stupid person
is sitting in a lecture,
they don't understand
what the lecturer is talking about.
They haven't heard this before.
They haven't processed it before.
Since it is new to them,
they are going to pay attention.
Now, if you have a high IQ,
that also means you have
a strong predictive capability, right?
So if you think about like high IQ
and playing chess,
you can read 10 moves ahead.
So when your brain is listening
to someone speak,
when you are performing a task
and your brain automatically
makes calculations ahead
when it reads 10 moves ahead,
oh, you're like,
this guy's talking about
quantum mechanics.
Oh, I know what he's going to say.
He's talking about
the double slit experiment.
So you stop paying attention.
Anytime your mind
can read things through to the end,
it no longer pays attention.
When you no longer pay attention,
now you're not paying attention
and that opens you up
to making mistakes.
And when,
this is what's really scary about it, right?
So the simpler the thing is,
the easier it is to predict.
The easier it is to predict,
the more you stop paying attention.
And the more you stop paying attention,
the more mistakes you make.
So this is what's really scary, right?
This is what makes
a stupid intelligent person.
The thing that is really simple
is where you are making the mistakes,
which is really confusing
because then are you like really stupid
or are you really intelligent?
Turns out that if you go far enough
down the scale of intelligence,
you wrap around to stupidity.
The third thing that we're going to talk about,
people who are highly intelligent
paint themselves into a corner.
So here's how this goes.
In the research,
what people kind of describe
is that people who are highly intelligent
will commit to something that is false, okay?
Now why do they do that?
So imagine once again that I'm an idiot
and then I have a belief that is wrong.
So if I have a belief that's wrong,
that means that I can't defend it, right?
Like if I'm wrong
and I can't come up with a good logical reason for it,
then I'm just wrong
and then I have to admit my mistake
and then like I don't double down
and then like, okay,
I made a mistake and then I correct it
and then I'm like in the right camp.
But if you're smart
and you guys may notice this, right?
So if you've ever gotten into an argument
with someone with super high IQ on the internet
who is, you know,
found on the I am very smart subreddit,
what you will discover
is that oftentimes people
who are really intelligent
are really arrogant about it
and even when they are wrong,
they will argue with you
until their last breath.
Now why does this happen?
So you will say,
okay, this is because they're arrogant assholes.
But no,
this is actually a function of intelligence.
That's what the research suggests, okay?
So when you have a wrong belief
and if you have the capacity for intelligence,
even when you have a wrong belief,
you can come up with logical reasons
why your wrong belief is correct.
And there are some people out there
that are famously very intelligent
but are also really stupid
and stuck on wrong beliefs
that they will, you know,
go down with the sinking ship.
They just will never admit they're wrong.
And part of it is arrogance for sure, right?
And we'll get to how that arrogance
is the solution to all of this.
We'll kind of get to that in a second.
But I want y'all to understand
that the better you are,
the better your brain is
at producing arguments,
the more likely you are
to defend a wrong point of view.
And as you are defending a wrong point of view,
it opens you up to make big mistakes, okay?
And this is where, like,
I see this literally all the time
with the very high-functioning people
that I work with,
which is, like,
since they are right most of the time,
the 1% or 2% of the time
that they are wrong,
they have a lot of difficulty
understanding that they're wrong, right?
So as I, I mean,
I don't really explain to them,
I figured out how to do this,
but if they talk to their co-founders
or their advisory board
or things like that, right,
their C-suite kind of group,
like, they have a lot of difficulty
recognizing they're wrong
because their mind is always able
to come up with arguments
that support the incorrect belief.
Another kind of stupidity
that people with high IQ
are predisposed to
is something called
a misapplied heuristic
or a discrepancy
between someone's confidence
and their abilities.
So, like, a good example of this
that doesn't have to do with IQ
is, you know,
back a couple,
maybe about a year ago,
two years ago,
there was, like,
all these things going around
on social media
where there were, like,
dudes who were like,
yeah, I can wrestle a bear, bro.
Like, if I took a bear
in a fight,
like, unarmed,
like, I would own that bear.
Like, I'm stronger than a bear.
Right?
You have, like,
people on social media
who are making these
bizarre claims of confidence.
So there's a gap
between what you believe
you're capable of
and what you were
actually capable of.
So Dunning and Krueger
wrote a seminal paper
on this back in, like,
1999,
which is called
the Dunning-Kruger effect,
which is that people
who don't know much
misestimate their abilities.
Is this just a case
of, like,
people being arrogant?
Because that's certainly
the case on social media.
But it turns out
that there's some really
interesting science behind this.
And this is something
that Kant originally
sort of discovered.
And he said that judgment
is, I think,
the application of a rule,
like, appropriately.
So in a lot of situations,
if you apply the correct rules,
then you will behave
intelligently or smartly
or wisely.
And if you apply
the wrong set of rules
to a situation,
then that will result
in stupidity.
In scientific terms,
this is something called
the problem of
misapplied heuristics.
So a heuristic is kind of like,
you know,
a set of rules that we follow.
And when we don't
correctly read the situation,
when we have sort of,
like, an answer key,
and we misapply
this answer key
to a set of problems,
that results in stupidity.
So a good example of this,
I've worked with a bunch of people
who are, once again,
CEOs, founders, leaders, right?
And they have a set of rules
of when interacting with people.
These are the set of rules
that lead to success.
And when these leaders
go home
and they have their spouse
or partner,
when they have their kids,
they assume, right,
this is why they end up
in my office
because they're in the midst
of their partners
threatening divorce,
they're alienated
from their children,
they're narcissistic,
and they're like,
I don't understand what's wrong.
Like, why do people hate me?
Like, I'm focused on efficiency.
They want these things.
I tell them to do it this way.
If everyone listened to me,
everyone would get what they want.
I'm smart.
I know how to do this.
I built a hundred million dollar company.
I don't know why these people
are fucking arguing with me.
My son is 15 years old
and he fucking argues with me.
This is a case
of a misapplied heuristic.
This person is incredibly successful,
somewhat narcissistic, fine,
but that's not actually
what their mistake is.
Their mistake is that
they are taking the rule set
from being a founder or leader
and they are applying it
to a family situation.
They're applying it
to a 15-year-old son
who is in the process
of transitioning
from a child to an adult.
So even that heuristic
used to work
when your son was like six
because when your son is six
and you're like 40,
they listen to you.
They're supposed to listen to you,
but as they start
to develop independence,
right,
when your employees
are developing independence,
you're like,
nah, brah,
you got to listen
to what I'm saying,
but that doesn't work
with your kid.
It doesn't work
with your spouse.
So as we misapply heuristics,
we result in stupidity
despite the fact
that we're intelligent.
Why are people
with intelligence
more vulnerable to this?
It's because their ability
to shape a heuristic
to a situation
is actually greater.
If I were to ask
like a super smart person,
make me a list
of the similarities
between a family
and a company,
like they could connect
those dots more easily.
As they connect
those dots more easily,
they're more likely
to apply heuristics,
adapt heuristics,
which on some level
may work,
but is not nearly as good
as developing
an independent heuristic.
So now the question becomes
how do we fix this, right?
So how do we move
from being a stupid
intelligent person
to a smart intelligent person?
It turns out
that there's another element here.
There's another like
cognitive principle,
which oftentimes
if you're intelligent,
you don't really figure out.
Some people sort of
do it naturally,
which is how they become
smart intelligent people.
But if you don't do it naturally,
you can absolutely learn it, okay?
And this is called
thinking disposition.
So this thinking disposition
is not your IQ.
It is the way
that you relate
to your thinking,
the attitude
that you have
towards your thinking.
So let me give you
an example, okay?
I am an influencer.
So many influencers
are like,
hey, I'm successful
on YouTube.
Therefore,
let me become
an entrepreneur, right?
So they're like
these entrepreneur influencers.
Many of them
will start companies.
They'll develop products
like myself.
I developed
a coaching program.
And since,
by the way,
since I'm successful
on YouTube,
that must mean
anything that I develop
will work, right?
So here I am
trained at Harvard Medical School,
was faculty there,
was there for like
seven or eight years
and like now
I'm successful
on the internet
and these two data points
mean that whatever
product I develop
will be successful
because I'm such a genius.
That's not actually
the attitude
that I take though.
We did actually
the exact opposite
at HE
because, you know,
we understand
based on medical training
and stuff like that
that genius
doesn't translate
directly over
to successful products.
That's why we do
studies on our
coaching program.
We have research
baked into it
to measure
whether it actually
works with people, right?
So we see
reductions in depression,
reductions in anxiety,
improvements.
In the sense of
life purpose,
we see people like
living up to their potential.
They tend to be
pretty happy with it.
10 to 20,000 people
have gone through
the program
since we started it.
It is the way
that you relate
to your thinking.
So just because
Dr. K has an idea,
even if I'm Dr. K,
that doesn't make it good.
And there are a couple
of critical components
to thinking disposition.
The first is
collecting information
before you make a judgment.
So this is what's
really like tricky, okay?
So the smarter you are,
the more quickly
you will arrive
at a judgment, right?
Because you can make
all of these
natural calculations.
They happen pretty quick.
And so oftentimes
what we don't do,
even when we know
the answer,
we don't go
looking for information.
So the whole point
of medical training
is that when a doctor
jumps to a conclusion,
like jumps to a diagnosis,
oh yeah,
I've seen the flu
a thousand times.
Flu's going around,
your kid comes in,
he's got the flu, right?
So he's got sweats, right?
And they don't ask the question,
okay, does he have sweats
only at night
or does he have them
all day long?
Do they respond to Tylenol?
Do they not respond to Tylenol?
Has someone else
been sick in the house?
This is how you separate out
something like lymphoma
or leukemia
from the flu.
The training that we go
through for doctors
is even when you
make a judgment
or ideally before
you make a final judgment,
you can have an initial
diagnostic idea,
you should still
collect information.
So be a little bit hesitant
to make judgments,
make judgments
after you go through a process.
The second thing
for thinking disposition
is when you have
a particular idea
to try to engage
with contrary opinions.
This is something
that we see very little
of on the internet
where you have a lot
of intelligent people
who become parts
of echo chambers
and they stop engaging
with contrary opinions.
So I know it sounds insane
but like when you have
an idea of what is OP
in a video game
because you're so smart
and you're someone
who is like high rank
and therefore you know everything.
When you think
something is OP
you kind of double down,
you argue with people,
you don't actually go around
collecting opinions
that are the exact
opposite of yours.
Maybe you do
and if you do,
chances are you're
a smart intelligent person.
Right?
So if we're intelligent,
we actually want to bring
in contrary opinions
for our intelligence
to factor into the calculation.
We don't have to believe them
but we really want
to collect that data.
The third thing
and this is so counterintuitive
because we all think we do it
and that is thinking
before you make a decision.
Just because our mind
produces a calculation,
right?
It usually happens very fast.
It usually happens unintentionally.
Your mind just comes up
with an idea.
Oh, this is bad.
We oftentimes,
the more intelligent you are,
the less you learn
because you don't need to,
right?
So if you're very intelligent,
you make a calculation,
the chances are
the calculation is right.
So then you sort of
fly by the seat of your pants.
A lot of people go through life
with like this
automatic intelligence.
That's what
predisposes you
to make mistakes
because that's not always
going to be right.
And then we see
this weird synergistic effect
because if you make
a snap judgment,
if you don't collect information
and then you have
a very, very robust
intellectual capability,
you will argue yourself
into being correct
even when you're wrong.
So you need to pause
and really think
about making decisions.
So oftentimes
when I'm working
with someone,
you know what I'll do
is I'll ask them.
You guys may have seen
this in our interviews,
right?
I'll ask them
lots of open-ended questions.
I'll really get them
to think about their problems.
I don't give them answers
and I don't need to.
And if you struggle with this
because it's kind of hard
to do on your own,
this is where working
with someone
who asks you questions
to encourage your thinking
about the problem,
to engage your critical thinking
instead of jumping
to a conclusion
which is technically
what your mind does,
that's what leads
to smart intelligence.
And the last thing
is to think critically
about your thinking,
okay?
This is sort of related.
This is why we sort of
encourage people to think.
But oftentimes
the smarter you are,
the less critical you are
about your own thinking,
right?
So we may think
we're critical
and some of y'all
may be critical
about your thinking.
I think that's totally fine.
But when I encounter people
who are like high IQ
and super blackpilled,
this is a good example
of not being critical
about your thinking.
They may have read
a bunch of research
but they never stop
to think like,
okay, there's a bunch
of studies on why
blackpill is correct
but do they spend
an equal amount of time
studying lots of things
that show that blackpill
isn't correct?
No, it turns out
that there's a selection bias.
So if you are someone
who is a stupid
intelligent person,
it's not about
leveling up your IQ
or leveling down,
well, I guess it is
about leveling down
your stupidity.
And the way that we do that
is by changing
our thinking disposition.