---
title: 부자들이랑 친구하며 배운 것
uploader: BZCF | 비즈까페
channel: BZCF | 비즈까페
channel_url: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCWgXoKQ4rl7SY9UHuAwxvzQ
duration: 682
upload_date: 20260516
webpage_url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jAQx_V_gEnw
id: jAQx_V_gEnw
categories:
  - People & Blogs
---

# 부자들이랑 친구하며 배운 것

As I've gotten more success, I've had the opportunity to be around really successful people.
And I've noticed some common traits amongst all of these folks,
whether they're a business person or a politician or an athlete,
they all have the sort of same set of skills.
And I think it's like really interesting to see that and learn from them.
Let me give you some examples.
I've gotten to know Kevin Hart pretty well over the last, I guess, seven or eight years.
The thing that you realize when you spend time with Kevin is how unbelievably hardworking this guy is.
We'll play poker and the game will end at 3, 4 in the morning.
And he wakes up at 6 and he goes to the gym and then he's got four or five different shoots.
And, you know, some days we play poker back to back and then he's back playing again.
And I think to myself, how is he able to do all of these things?
And he has a work ethic and a stamina that I think is unique.
And so I used to think, well, wait, why do I not have that stamina?
Is that just sort of something that's God given?
And you find out that no, there's a level of desire that kind of drives a lot of these folks
to find the energy so that they're just trying to pack as much into their lives as possible.
And I think that's a really important thing where sometimes it's just easier to kind of slow down and take it a little bit more easy.
And I think that some of these guys really believe in this adage of like, you know, you rest when you're dead kind of a thing.
So there's just a level of work ethic.
And I think that when I'm at my best, I see that I do that too.
You know, I'm constantly reading, trying to understand something, modeling something, learning about something.
And I managed to do it and balance other things as well.
So, you know, that's an example of something that I've learned from him.
I have a lot more humility now than I had back then.
I do not think that I will really be one of those people.
I will be a very successful person.
But I think the level that they can find those gears, the work ethic that Kevin Hart can channel or the resilience that Elon can channel.
I'm not sure that I have that.
And before that probably would have triggered a lot of insecurity.
And now it's more understanding that, you know, I have other skills where I can be really excellent and best in class.
I'm just about shaping those things so that I can kind of like excel in the ways that I'm actually really capable of.
And that's important because like knowing your limitations and knowing your strengths and weaknesses, it's a key gift of getting older.
There is absolutely no method to knowing yourself better.
You know, that old phrase, to thine own self be true.
The only way to do it is time and introspection and honesty.
The amount of lying that people do is outrageous.
You blame everybody else for everything that's going on.
Let's take a simple one.
You lose money in the stock market.
It's my fault, apparently, not yours.
No, it's your fault.
Own it.
I think when you look at athletes, I'll give you a very specific one, you know, two people that I know, but one person that I know particularly well, Draymond Green.
And there's an enormous amount of repetition that goes into success where folks are willing to commit to something for literally thousands and thousands and thousands of hours.
And when there are all kinds of distractions that could take you away from continuing to focus on something and you don't, that's an incredible sign that you're meant to be successful.
The corollary to that is just sheer focus and dedication.
I've seen Elon many times where, and he's talked about this now, you know, where he just disappears because for weeks at a time, he's literally living and breathing inside of, you know, Tesla or SpaceX to a degree where he's just sleeping on the ground in a sleeping bag.
I don't think most of us can understand finding that gear, but I think it's all within ourselves.
You have to care enough, I think, to try to find it.
That's another thing that I've observed from people.
I think about people like Bill Ackman or Dan Loeb, unbelievable investors, capital allocators, kind of masters of the universe.
And they're incredibly honest about the trials and tribulations of their job.
That's really incredible to see because not everything always works.
And in their job, particularly, like you can see moments where, you know, when you lose money, everybody knows.
Obviously, when you make money, everybody knows as well.
But, you know, it's when you're losing money that's really important because that's where you can make real mistakes.
Those guys are incredibly honest about what's happening at any given point in time.
And I think that that's a really useful and important skill.
The people that achieve enormous, enduring success have the ability in that specific thing to be extremely honest.
Maybe they're not necessarily honest about everything.
Maybe they don't necessarily tell, you know, their friends and their wives everything.
I don't know.
I can't tell.
But what I can tell you is in that thing, they have incredible taste, which requires honesty.
Taste.
Is it good?
Is it useful?
Is it exceptional?
If that is done without honesty, you don't have taste.
If you don't have taste, you'll never be successful.
When you look at my Wikipedia profile, there's this dumb book that Stephen Levy wrote.
He characterizes me as this bully that would make people cry.
I don't remember that.
But what I do remember was I was a zealot about honesty.
You couldn't lie.
And every time I sniffed out that what we were dealing with was your own emotional bias and bullshit, I would probably eviscerate you.
And what I was trying to teach people was that your emotions are irrelevant.
And it's the core truth that matters.
That same principle just this week, I was with my team looking at 80-90 and all of our early adoption and progress.
And we've made a lot, but there was this young, extremely talented person.
He was blathering on about all kinds of emotional bullshit.
And I stopped him and I was like, this is not factual.
And I had to course correct him.
Now, my style and tone have changed a lot over these last 18 years.
So I yelled a lot less than I used to, I guess.
But the core principle is the same.
If you cannot be completely honest, you cannot fix anything and you will never make anything good.
It's just the truth.
I think the person that embodies taste the most in our modern world is Elon.
If you look at the things that he makes, he has found this incredibly unique intersection of the things he makes are good and the things he makes are useful.
That is like the unicorn of taste.
That's very rare.
The only other person that's come even close to that is Steve Jobs.
I'm sure there are other people that have found the intersection of good and useful.
You know, I aspire to make things that are good and useful.
I don't think I have necessarily, but I aspire to do it.
But he has done it multiple times.
I think most successful people start something and don't stop.
The thing that they start is a journey that's about challenging themselves, finding adventure, doing interesting things.
Things like money are like these byproducts and people get distracted.
The mid-level successful people focus on money.
But the truly successful people just crush because they never get distracted by that nonsense.
Well, the best piece of advice I ever got, well, may not be the best piece of advice, it was definitely an incredibly useful piece of advice, was a guy that I worked with when I was at AOL.
His name was Eric Brandon.
He was like a VP at the time.
I was like a manager or an analyst.
And he said, Chamath, why don't you spend more time focusing on being the most successful 22-year-old possible?
I was 22 at the time.
And I was like, what does that mean?
And he says, well, I just see you spending so much time comparing yourself to the 30-year-olds and 35-year-olds and 40-year-olds.
They're just living in a different world with a different context.
They've had a lot more time.
And you're confusing the game.
And he said, the game is that there's a bunch of other 22-year-olds that are similarly situated.
How are you doing there?
And find some comfort in your progress there while you actually push yourself harder and harder.
That turned out to be really useful advice.
Because I would see some 45-year-old EVP and think, I'm smarter than that guy.
I wasn't.
I'm better than that guy.
I wasn't.
And all I did was just amp myself up and just create all kinds of unnecessary anxiety.
But that was really useful advice.
I think that there's a huge trap that traditional societal norms creates.
You know, the number of kids I've worked with that went to Harvard and Stanford that ended up working for me at any one of my various companies who are just morons?
Infinite.
And they showed up with absolutely zero resilience, no ability to absorb failure, and no sense that they had actually done anything themselves.
In fact, they were corrupted by that.
So there's a lot of situations where you can go through life and never really know that you've accomplished something useful.
So it's really important to make sure that the things that you do are your own.
It's always good to get, you know, an open door.
But you've got to walk through those doors with your own two feet.
If you don't know how to do that, you're just going to think of yourself always as semi-fraudulent, I think.
That's an unnecessary negative emotion that will slow a lot of people down.
The most incredible thing that's happened to me in the last few years is I get a text from somebody that I didn't know or get introduced to somebody who is just a legitimate giant in my eyes.
And I feel like I'm just this little person.
And I'm like a, you know, giddy little kid.
Like, I can't believe I'm texting with this person, Zooming with this person.
And what you find, though, when I talk to them is they're almost relieved because they know you want nothing from them.
They want nothing from me.
And instead, we can actually just talk and we can be very honest and raw about, you know, what's happening.
That's been an incredible blessing.
I think when I was younger, I was grinding with people that were equally ambitious or maybe a little bit less or maybe a little bit more.
And as a result, we were just guarded.
And I almost think that we thought everything was very zero sum, where my success would take away from his success or vice versa.
And so we kind of shared, but not really.
And then you get to this level where you realize there's infinite success to go around.
Infinite.
What happens to you isn't taking away from somebody else.
And so as a result, you can just be a lot more kind to each other and open with each other.
The really successful people focus on an infinite game with themselves.
They do not play anybody else's game by their, by somebody else's rule.
That is the stupidest way to waste your life.